.TH pnm2ppa "28 Oct 2000"
.SH NAME
pnm2ppa - convert portable anymap (PNM) images to HP's PPA printer format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
pnm2ppa [options] [ -i \fIinfile\fR ] [ -o \fIoutfile\fR ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads portable anymap (PNM) format as input. Binary PNM formats pnmraw = 
{ppmraw (color pixmap), pgmraw (graymap), and pbmraw (black-and-white bitmap)}
are strongly preferred.  Output stream can be locally processed by  
Hewlett-Packard's
Printing Performance Architecture (PPA) printers (HP DeskJet 710C, 712C, 720C,
722C, 820C, and 1000C series). 
.PP
(PNM format output can be produced from PostScript(tm) input by the 
GhostScript output devices "pbmraw", "pgmraw" or "ppmraw",  or by "pnmraw", 
which will choose one of these  formats as appropriate for the document.)
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.\"{{{	-b bottommargin
.IP "\fB\-b \fIbottommargin\fR\fP"
Sets the bottom margin \fIbottommargin\fR in units of 1/600 inches (e.g., \fB -b 150\fP corresponds to 0.25").
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-B blackness
.IP "\fB\-B \fIblackness\fR\fP"
Sets the black ink density \fIblackness\fR in drops per pixel (0,1,2,3,4).
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	--bi
.IP "\fB\--bi\fP"
Force bidirectional print sweeps.
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	--bw
.IP "\fB\--bw\fP"
Disables the color cartridge; will print in grey scale using only the black cartridge.
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-d
.IP "\fB\-d\fP"
Displays the current configuration.
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	--eco
.IP "\fB\--eco\fP"
Econofast mode: lower print quality that is faster and saves ink.
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-f configFile
.IP "\fB\-f \fIconfigFile\fR\fP"
Re-reads configuration from \fIconfigFile\fR (after 
initially reading it from /etc/pnm2ppa.conf). 
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-F GammaFile
.IP "\fB\-F \fIGammaFile\fR\fP"
Overrides reading the color-correction table (Gamma curve) from the default 
file /etc/pnm2ppa.gamma, and uses \fIGammaFile\fR instead.
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	--fd
.IP "\fB\--fd\fP"
Enable fast ordered dithering instead of using the slower, but beautiful, Floyd-Steinberg dithering. (Has no effect in --bw mode.)
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-g
.IP "\fB\-g\fP"
Prints a page of color intensity samples (for comparison with gamma.ppm
data produced by calibrate_ppa).
This is part of a \fBcolor-correction\fP procedure; see COLOR.txt for more details.
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-h, --help
.IP "\fB\-h, --help\fP"
Displays program usage.
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-i infile
.IP "\fB\-i \fIinfile\fR\fP"
Input file \fIinfile\fR is either a path to a PPM file, or '-' to indicate stdin  (defaults to stdin).
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-l leftmargin
.IP "\fB\-l \fIleftmargin\fR\fP"
Sets the left margin \fIleftmargin\fR in units of 1/600 inches (e.g., \fB-l 150\fP corresponds to 0.25").
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	--noGamma
.IP "\fB\--noGamma\fP"
Switches off any color-correction.
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-o outfile | - 
.IP "\fB\-o \fIoutfile\fR | - \fP"
Output file \fIoutfile\fR is either a path to a file or device, or '-' to indicate stdout (defaults to stdout).
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-p
.IP "\fB\-p\fP"
Disables the black ink cartridge; i.e.,  print  using only the color ink cartridge, even for printing "black".  This might be useful for printing high-quality
color  images.
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-r rightmargin
.IP "\fB\-r \fIrightmargin\fR\fP"
Sets the right margin \fIrightmargin\fR in units of 1/600 inches (e.g., \fB-r 150\fP corresponds to 0.25").
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-s  papersize
.IP "\fB\-s \fIpapersize\fR\fP"
Sets the default paper size (now used only for color-correction output 
produced by the \fB-g\fP option). 
In normal use, pnm2ppa now instead reads the paper dimensions from 
pnm input file headers, and 
checks that it is a valid papersize for the given printer model. 
Possible values for \fIpapersize\fR are \fBa4\fP (A4),
\fBletter\fP or \fBus\fP (US Letter, 8.5"x11"), \fBlegal\fR (US Legal,
8.5"x14").
The default is US Letter.
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-t topmargin
.IP "\fB\-t \fItopmargin\fR\fP"
Sets the top margin \fItopmargin\fR in units of 1/600 inches (ie \fB-t 150\fP corresponds to 0.25").
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	--uni
.IP "\fB\--uni\fP"
Force unidirectional (left to right) print sweeps.  Useful if
"shearing" is a problem for high quality color images.
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-v  printertype
.IP "\fB\-v \fIprintertype\fP"
Selects the printer model.  Possible values of \fIprintertype\fR are:
\fB710\fP, \fB712\fP, \fB720\fP, \fB722\fP, \fB820\fP and \fB1000\fP.
The default is the HP DeskJet 7X0 Series (710, 712, 720, 722).
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	--verbose
.IP "\fB\--verbose\fP"
Displays the program's System Log messages on the standard output, as well.
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	--version
.IP "\fB\--version\fP"
Displays the program's version information.
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-x xoffset
.IP "\fB\-x \fIxoffset\fR\fP"
Sets the x-offset \fIxoffset\fR from the left of the page. Units are 1/600 inches.
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	-y yoffset
.IP "\fB\-y \fIyoffset\fR\fP"
Sets the y-offset \fIyoffset\fR from the top of the page. Units are 1/600 inches.
.\"}}}

 
.SH NOTES
The default configuration file \fI/etc/pnm2ppa.conf\fR  is read in first. Command line arguments then modify the resulting definitions.
.PP
The \fB-v\fP option resets all definitions (margins, offsets, etc.)  back to
the inbuilt defaults for that printer and should be used before subsequent
\fB-b\fP, \fB-l\fP, \fB-r\fP, \fB-t\fP, \fB-x\fP and \fB-y\fP arguments.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pnm(5), ppm(5), pbm(5)

.SH FILES

.\"{{{	/etc/pnm2ppa.conf
.IP "\fB\fI/etc/pnm2ppa.conf\fR\fP"
Default configuration file.
.\"}}}

.\"{{{	/etc/pnm2ppa.gamma
.IP "\fB\fI/etc/pnm2ppa.gamma\fR\fP"
Default Gamma (color-correction) file.
.\"}}}

.SH AUTHOR
This code is licensed under the GNU Public License version 2. See
LICENSE for details.
.PP
(c) 1998-1999	Tim Norman
.PP
(c) 1999	Giorgio Marzano
.PP
(c) 1999	Andrew van der Stock
.PP
(c) 1998-2000	Various authors for many, many fixes
.SH HISTORY
This program was originally pbm2ppa, written by Tim Norman. It originally 
supported black and white output on the 820 series. 
Tim added nascent color support in early
1999. In May 1999, Giorgio Marzano started making real headway in getting
color support working properly. Andrew van der Stock has maintained
the code since September 1999, and  made it available at
http://sourceforge.net/projects/pnm2ppa.
.SH BUGS
Faint horizontal lines marking boundaries between print sweeps may be visible.
For best results when printing images, use the options \fB -p --uni \fP.

